OSSM-8215 [DOC] Document using multiple control planes on a single cluster (#85272)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ossm-deploying-multiple-control-planes.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// install/ossm-using-multiple-control-planes-on-single-cluster.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: Procedure
[id="ossm-deploying-multiple-control-planes_{context}"]
= Deploying multiple control planes
:context: ossm-deploying-multiple-control-planes

> This procedure demonstrates how to configure a cluster to host two control planes in separate system namespaces. Each control plane will manage specific application workloads running in designated namespaces. The namespaces are associated with a control plane using revision and discovery selector configurations.

Reviewer: @shreyasiddhartha It looks like this was added to the top of the "Deploy application workloads in each mesh", when it should have been at the top of the "Deploying multiple control planes" section, replacing the paragraph:

"This procedure demonstrates how to configure a cluster to host two control planes in separate system namespaces. Each control plane will manage specific application workloads running in designated namespaces. The namespaces are associated with a control plane using revision and discovery selector configurations."

.Prerequisites
* The {SMProduct} operator is installed.
* An {istio} CNI resource is created.
* The `istioctl` binary is installed on your localhost.

.Procedure

. Create the namespace for the first {istio} control plane called `istio-system-1`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create namespace istio-system-1
----

> . Add label to the namespace:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add the following label to the namespace, which will be used with the Istio `discoverySelector`:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc label namespace istio-system-1 usergroup=usergroup-1
----

. Create a YAML file named `istio-1.yaml` with the name `mesh-1` and the discoverySelector `usergroup-1`:
+
.Example configuration
[source,yaml,subs="attributes,verbatim"]
----
kind: Istio
apiVersion: sailoperator.io/v1alpha1
metadata:
  name: mesh-1
spec:
  namespace: istio-system-1
  values:
    meshConfig:
      discoverySelectors:
        - matchLabels:
            usergroup: usergroup-1
----

> . Create `Istio` resource:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create the `Istio` resource:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f istio-1.yaml
----

. Create a namespace for the second Istio control plane called `istio-system-2`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create namespace istio-system-2
----

> . Add label to the second namespace:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add the following label to the second namespace, which will be used with the Istio `discoverySelector`:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc label namespace istio-system-2 usergroup=usergroup-2
----

. Create a YAML file named `istio-2.yaml`:
+
.Example configuration
[source,yaml,subs="attributes,verbatim"]
----
kind: Istio
apiVersion: sailoperator.io/v1alpha1
metadata:
  name: mesh-2
spec:
  namespace: istio-system-2
  values:
    meshConfig:
      discoverySelectors:
        - matchLabels:
            usergroup: usergroup-2
----

. . Create `Istio` resource:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f istio-2.yaml
----

> . Deploy a policy for workloads in the `istio-system-1` namespace to only accept mutual TLS traffic `peer-auth-1.yaml`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. While we now have two independently managed service meshes in the same cluster, by default, workloads are able to communicate freely between meshes with unencrypted traffic, which may not be desirable. To lock down the `mesh-1` data plane such that only mesh-internal mutual TLS traffic is accepted,  deploy a `PeerAuthentication` resource to require mTLS traffic for workloads in the `istio-system-1`. In this case, called `peer-auth-1.yaml`:
``` 
@FilipB Can you confirm that I have the above accurate? I felt like more explanation was needed as to what this policy is doing, because we don't talk about PeerAuthentications elsewhere. It's not that clear in the upstream doc either, because it assumes you already know about PeerAuthentications, which i don't want to assume the reader knows about here.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f peer-auth-1.yaml
----
+
.Example configuration
[source,yaml,subs="attributes,verbatim"]
----
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1
kind: PeerAuthentication
metadata:
  name: "usergroup-1-peerauth"
  namespace: "istio-system-1"
spec:
  mtls:
    mode: STRICT
----

. Deploy a policy for workloads in the `istio-system-2` namespace to only accept mutual TLS traffic `peer-auth-2.yaml`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f peer-auth-2.yaml
----
+
.Example configuration
[source,yaml,subs="attributes,verbatim"]
----
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1
kind: PeerAuthentication
metadata:
  name: "usergroup-2-peerauth"
  namespace: "istio-system-2"
spec:
  mtls:
    mode: STRICT
----

.Verfication

> . Verify that both the control planes deploy and run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verify that both of the Istio control planes deploy and run. This can be done by validating that the `Istiod` pod is successfully running in each Istio system namespace.
```

+
.. Run the following command for `istio-system-1` verification:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get pods -n istio-system-1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc get pods -n istio-system-1
NAME                            READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
istiod-mesh-1-b69646b6f-kxrwk   1/1     Running   0          4m14s

```

----
+
.. Run the following command for `istio-system-2` verification:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get pods -n istio-system-2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc get pods -n istio-system-2
NAME                            READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
istiod-mesh-2-8666fdfc6-mqp45   1/1     Running   0          118s
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// install/ossm-using-multiple-control-planes-on-single-cluster.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: Procedure
[id="ossm-deploying-multiple-control-planes_{context}"]
= Deploying multiple control planes
:context: ossm-deploying-multiple-control-planes

This procedure demonstrates how to configure a cluster to host two control planes in separate system namespaces. Each control plane will manage specific application workloads running in designated namespaces. The namespaces are associated with a control plane using revision and discovery selector configurations.

.Prerequisites
* The {SMProduct} operator is installed.
* An {istio} CNI resource is created.
* The `istioctl` binary is installed on your localhost.

.Procedure

> . Create a system namespace called `usergroup-1`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create the namespace for the first Istio control plane called `istio-system-1`:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc create namespace usergroup-1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc create namespace istio-system-1
```

----

. Add label to the namespace:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc label namespace usergroup-1 usergroup=usergroup-1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc label namespace istio-system-1 usergroup=usergroup-1
```

----

> . Create a YAML file named `istio-1.yaml`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a YAML file named `istio-1.yaml` with the name `mesh-1` and the discoverySelector `usergroup-1`:
```

+
.Example configuration
[source,yaml,subs="attributes,verbatim"]
----
kind: Istio
apiVersion: sailoperator.io/v1alpha1
metadata:

>   name: usergroup-1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  name: mesh-1
```

spec:

>   namespace: usergroup-1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  namespace: istio-system-1
```

  values:
    meshConfig:
      discoverySelectors:
        - matchLabels:
            usergroup: usergroup-1
  updateStrategy:
    type: InPlace

>   version: v1.23.0

Reviewer: The "updateStrategy" and "version" fields here may not be appropriate for all users, and the "version" value will start to look out of date quickly. We should remove these fields as they are not relevant to the example.

I'll double check, but hopefully if they are omitted and the user will just get default values if they did try to copy/paste this.

Reviewer: Just checked, these are not required or relevant to the example, so we should remove the lines updateStrategy, type and version.

----

. Create `Istio` resource:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f istio-1.yaml
----

> . Create a second system namespace called `usergroup-2`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a namespace for the second Istio control plane called `istio-system-2`:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc create namespace usergroup-2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc create namespace istio-system-2
```

----

. Add label to the second namespace:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc label namespace usergroup-2 usergroup=usergroup-2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc label namespace istio-system-2 usergroup=usergroup-2
```

----

. Create a YAML file named `istio-2.yaml`:
+
.Example configuration
[source,yaml,subs="attributes,verbatim"]
----
kind: Istio
apiVersion: sailoperator.io/v1alpha1
metadata:

>   name: usergroup-2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  name: mesh-2
```

spec:

>   namespace: usergroup-2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  namespace: istio-system-2
```

  values:
    meshConfig:
      discoverySelectors:
        - matchLabels:
            usergroup: usergroup-2
  updateStrategy:
    type: InPlace
  version: v1.23.0
----

. . Create `Istio` resource:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f istio-2.yaml
----

> . Deploy a policy for workloads in the `usergroup-1` namespace to only accept mutual TLS traffic `peer-auth-1.yaml`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Deploy a policy for workloads in the `istio-system-1` namespace to only accept mutual TLS traffic `peer-auth-1.yaml`:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f peer-auth-1.yaml
----
+
.Example configuration
[source,yaml,subs="attributes,verbatim"]
----
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1
kind: PeerAuthentication
metadata:
  name: "usergroup-1-peerauth"

>   namespace: "usergroup-1"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  namespace: "istio-system-1"
```

spec:
  mtls:
    mode: STRICT
----

> . Deploy a policy for workloads in the `usergroup-2` namespace to only accept mutual TLS traffic `peer-auth-2.yaml`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Deploy a policy for workloads in the `istio-system-2` namespace to only accept mutual TLS traffic `peer-auth-2.yaml`:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f peer-auth-2.yaml
----
+
.Example configuration
[source,yaml,subs="attributes,verbatim"]
----
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1
kind: PeerAuthentication
metadata:
  name: "usergroup-2-peerauth"

>   namespace: "usergroup-2"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  namespace: "istio-system-2"
```

spec:
  mtls:
    mode: STRICT
----

.Verfication

. Verify that both the control planes deploy and run:
+

> .. Run the following command for `usergroup-1` verification:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Run the following command for `istio-system-1` verification:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get pods -n usergroup-1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc get pods -n istio-system-1
```

----
+

> .. Run the following command for `usergroup-2` verification:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Run the following command for `istio-system-2` verification:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get pods -n usergroup-2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc get pods -n istio-system-2
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// install/ossm-deploying-multiple-service-meshes-on-single-cluster.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: Procedure
[id="ossm-deploying-multiple-control-planes_{context}"]
= Deploying multiple control planes
:context: ossm-deploying-multiple-control-planes

This procedure demonstrates how to configure a cluster to host two control planes in separate system namespaces. Each control plane will manage specific application workloads running in designated namespaces. The namespaces are associated with a control plane using revision and discovery selector configurations.

.Prerequisites
* The {SMProduct} operator is installed.
* An {istio} CNI resource is created.
* The `istioctl` binary is installed on your localhost.

.Procedure

. Create the namespace for the first {istio} control plane called `istio-system-1`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create namespace istio-system-1
----

. Add the following label to the first namespace, which will be used with the Istio `discoverySelector`:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc label namespace istio-system-1 usergroup=usergroup-1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc label namespace istio-system-1 istio-discovery=mesh-1
```

----

. Create a YAML file named `istio-1.yaml` with the name `mesh-1` and the discoverySelector `usergroup-1`:
+
.Example configuration
[source,yaml,subs="attributes,verbatim"]
----
kind: Istio
apiVersion: sailoperator.io/v1alpha1
metadata:
  name: mesh-1
spec:
  namespace: istio-system-1
  values:
    meshConfig:
      discoverySelectors:
        - matchLabels:

>             usergroup: usergroup-1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            istio-discovery: mesh-1
```

----

. Create the first `Istio` resource:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f istio-1.yaml
----

. Create a namespace for the second Istio control plane called `istio-system-2`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create namespace istio-system-2
----

. Add the following label to the second namespace, which will be used with the Istio `discoverySelector`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc label namespace istio-system-2 usergroup=usergroup-2
----

. Create a YAML file named `istio-2.yaml`:
+
.Example configuration
[source,yaml,subs="attributes,verbatim"]
----
kind: Istio
apiVersion: sailoperator.io/v1alpha1
metadata:
  name: mesh-2
spec:
  namespace: istio-system-2
  values:
    meshConfig:
      discoverySelectors:
        - matchLabels:

>             usergroup: usergroup-2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            istio-discovery: mesh-2
```

----

. . Create `Istio` resource:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f istio-2.yaml
----

. To restrict workloads in `mesh-1` from communicating freely with unencrypted traffic between meshes, deploy a `PeerAuthentication` resource to enforce mutual TLS (mTLS) traffic within the `mesh-1` data plane. Apply the `PeerAuthentication` resource in the `istio-system-1` namespace by using a configuration file, such as `peer-auth-1.yaml`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f peer-auth-1.yaml
----
+
.Example configuration
[source,yaml,subs="attributes,verbatim"]
----
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1
kind: PeerAuthentication
metadata:

>   name: "usergroup-1-peerauth"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  name: "mesh-1-peerauth"
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// install/ossm-deploying-multiple-service-meshes-on-single-cluster.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: Procedure
[id="ossm-deploying-multiple-control-planes_{context}"]
= Deploying multiple control planes
:context: ossm-deploying-multiple-control-planes

> This procedure explains how to configure a cluster to host two control planes, each managing independent service mesh data planes. The configuration involves creating separate `{istio}` resources with unique names in independent {istio} system namespaces. Each `{istio}` resource will use a unique `revision` name, which identifies the control planes, workloads, or namespaces associated with it. These `revision` names, applied using injection or `istio.io/rev` labels determine which control plane will inject the sidecar proxy into the application pods.

Reviewer: Because Istio does it in the canary docs? https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/upgrade/canary/

> This procedure explains how to configure a cluster to host two control planes, each managing independent service mesh data planes. The configuration involves creating separate `{istio}` resources with unique names in independent {istio} system namespaces. Each `{istio}` resource will use a unique `revision` name, which identifies the control planes, workloads, or namespaces associated with it. These `revision` names, applied using injection or `istio.io/rev` labels determine which control plane will inject the sidecar proxy into the application pods.

Reviewer 2: Aha! Okay, but in the upstream case, you install a specific revision with `istioctl install --set revision=canary` (so, you need to set a value with that exact name). However, with Sail operator, the user never sets this value (and doesn't even need to know it exists), because it's automatically set by the operator from the `IstioRevision` resource name.

> This procedure explains how to configure a cluster to host two control planes, each managing independent service mesh data planes. The configuration involves creating separate `{istio}` resources with unique names in independent {istio} system namespaces. Each `{istio}` resource will use a unique `revision` name, which identifies the control planes, workloads, or namespaces associated with it. These `revision` names, applied using injection or `istio.io/rev` labels determine which control plane will inject the sidecar proxy into the application pods.

Reviewer: Ah ok - makes sense. So in our case, then we shouldn't format revision (ie no back ticks).

Each `{istio}` resource must also configure `discoverySelectors` to specify which namespaces the {istio} control plane observes. Only namespaces with labels that match the configured `discoverySelectors` can join the mesh. Additionally, discovery selectors determine which control plane creates the `istio-ca-root-cert` config map in each namespace, which is used to encrypt traffic between services with mutual TLS within each mesh.

> When adding an additional {istio} control plane to a cluster with an existing control plane, ensure that the existing `{istio}` instance has `discoverySelectors` configured to avoid overlapping with the new control plane. Run the following command to check for existing `{istio}` instances.

Reviewer: It looks like the `oc get istios` command is still under "Deploy application workloads in the mesh" and wasn't moved over. It should be after this sentence. I'll comment on the other spot as well, because it's out of place there.

> This procedure may be extended to support more than two control planes. The primary limitation on the number of service meshes in a single cluster is the availability of cluster resources.

Reviewer 2: Second sentence sounds overly complicated and could be simplified to something like:
```suggestion
This procedure may be extended to support more than two control planes. The maximum number of service meshes in a single cluster depends on the available cluster resources.
```

[NOTE]
====
There is only one `IstioCNI` resource shared by all control planes in the cluster, and it must be updated independently.
====

.Prerequisites
* The {SMProduct} operator is installed.
* An {istio} CNI resource is created.
* The `istioctl` binary is installed on your localhost.

> .Procedure

Reviewer 2: This procedure has 10 steps where two control planes are created. Would it be better to transform this into two main steps (one for each control plane) with 5 sub-steps:
1. Deploy the first control plane
     a. Create namespace
     b. Apply label
     c. Create Istio YAML
     d. Apply the YAML
     e. Create the PeerAuthentication resource
2. Deploy the 2nd control plane
     a. Create namespace
     b. Apply label
     c. Create Istio YAML
     d. Apply the YAML
     e. Create the PeerAuthentication resource

I think this would help the reader to make sense of all these steps more easily.

Reviewer: Yes, I agree with this. Right now we setup the first control plane, move the second, and then in step 9 come back to the first control plane to setup the PeerAuthentication. It would be more helpful for user who want to deploy additional control planes if the steps to deploy each control plane are kept together. So, it would be something like:

#### Deploy the first control plane
_Procedure_
Current steps 1-4, 9
#### Deploy the second control plane
_Procedure_
Current steps 5-8, 10

. Create the namespace for the first {istio} control plane called `istio-system-1`:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc create namespace istio-system-1

Reviewer 2: I believe we should be using `oc new-project` instead of `oc create namespace`.
```suggestion
$ oc new-project istio-system-1
```

Also replace all other occurrences of `oc create namespace` in this document.

----

> . Add the following label to the first namespace, which will be used with the Istio `discoverySelector`:

Reviewer 2: Not sure if formatting `discoverySelector` as code is correct, since there is no field with that exact name. The actual field name is `discoverySelectors`, so I think you either need to change this to either:
> ...with the Istio discovery selector:

or:

> ...with the Istio `discoverySelectors` field:

Reviewer 2: Also check for other occurrences of "discoverySelector" in the rest of this document.

            istio-discovery: mesh-2
----

. . Create `Istio` resource:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f istio-2.yaml
----

. To restrict workloads in `mesh-1` from communicating freely with unencrypted traffic between meshes, deploy a `PeerAuthentication` resource to enforce mutual TLS (mTLS) traffic within the `mesh-1` data plane. Apply the `PeerAuthentication` resource in the `istio-system-1` namespace by using a configuration file, such as `peer-auth-1.yaml`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f peer-auth-1.yaml
----
+
.Example configuration
[source,yaml,subs="attributes,verbatim"]
----
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1
kind: PeerAuthentication
metadata:
  name: "mesh-1-peerauth"
  namespace: "istio-system-1"
spec:
  mtls:
    mode: STRICT
----

. Deploy a policy for workloads in the `istio-system-2` namespace to only accept mutual TLS traffic `peer-auth-2.yaml`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f peer-auth-2.yaml
----
+
.Example configuration
[source,yaml,subs="attributes,verbatim"]
----
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1
kind: PeerAuthentication
metadata:
  name: "mesh-2-peerauth"
  namespace: "istio-system-2"
spec:
  mtls:
    mode: STRICT
----

.Verfication

> . Verify that both of the {istio} control planes deploy and run. This can be done by validating that the `Istiod` pod is successfully running in each {istio} system namespace.

Reviewer 2: Pod name should be in lower-case.
```suggestion
. Verify that both of the {istio} control planes deploy and run. This can be done by validating that the `istiod` pod is successfully running in each {istio} system namespace.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// install/ossm-deploying-multiple-service-meshes-on-single-cluster.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: Procedure
[id="ossm-deploying-multiple-control-planes_{context}"]
= Deploying multiple control planes
:context: ossm-deploying-multiple-control-planes

> This procedure explains how to configure a cluster to host two control planes, each managing independent service mesh data planes. The configuration involves creating separate `{istio}` resources with unique names in independent {istio} system namespaces. Each `{istio}` resource will use a unique revision name, which identifies the control planes, workloads, or namespaces associated with it. These revision names, applied using injection or `istio.io/rev` labels determine which control plane will inject the sidecar proxy into the application pods.

Reviewer 3: Avoid self-referential language.

Each `{istio}` resource must also configure discovery selectors to specify which namespaces the {istio} control plane observes. Only namespaces with labels that match the configured discovery selectors can join the mesh. Additionally, discovery selectors determine which control plane creates the `istio-ca-root-cert` config map in each namespace, which is used to encrypt traffic between services with mutual TLS within each mesh.

When adding an additional {istio} control plane to a cluster with an existing control plane, ensure that the existing `{istio}` instance has discovery selectors configured to avoid overlapping with the new control plane. Run the following command to check for existing `{istio}` instances:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get istios

> ----

Reviewer 3: Commands aren't typically present in module descriptions. Could you find a way to move this into the prereq or procedure blocks?

Author: Moved it to prereq as a note.

.. Create a namespace for the second Istio control plane called `istio-system-2`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc new-project istio-system-2
----

.. Add the following label to the second namespace, which will be used with the Istio `discoverySelectors` field:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc label namespace istio-system-2 istio-discovery=mesh-2
----

.. Create a YAML file named `istio-2.yaml`:
+
.Example configuration
[source,yaml,subs="attributes,verbatim"]
----
kind: Istio
apiVersion: sailoperator.io/v1alpha1
metadata:
  name: mesh-2
spec:
  namespace: istio-system-2
  values:
    meshConfig:
      discoverySelectors:
        - matchLabels:
            istio-discovery: mesh-2
----

.. Create `Istio` resource:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f istio-2.yaml
----

.. Deploy a policy for workloads in the `istio-system-2` namespace to only accept mutual TLS traffic `peer-auth-2.yaml`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f peer-auth-2.yaml
----
+
.Example configuration
[source,yaml,subs="attributes,verbatim"]
----
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1
kind: PeerAuthentication
metadata:
  name: "mesh-2-peerauth"
  namespace: "istio-system-2"
spec:
  mtls:
    mode: STRICT
----

> .Verfication

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.Verification
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// install/ossm-deploying-multiple-service-meshes-on-single-cluster.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: Procedure
[id="ossm-deploying-multiple-control-planes_{context}"]
= Deploying multiple control planes

> :context: ossm-deploying-multiple-control-planes

Reviewer 4: CONTEXT variables are usually placed in Assemblies and not modules. Is there a specific reason for placing a context variable in a module?

Author: Agreed. I'll remove it. Was following the format for other service mesh modules.

Each `{istio}` resource must also configure discovery selectors to specify which namespaces the {istio} control plane observes. Only namespaces with labels that match the configured discovery selectors can join the mesh. Additionally, discovery selectors determine which control plane creates the `istio-ca-root-cert` config map in each namespace, which is used to encrypt traffic between services with mutual TLS within each mesh.

When adding an additional {istio} control plane to a cluster with an existing control plane, ensure that the existing `{istio}` instance has discovery selectors configured to avoid overlapping with the new control plane.

This procedure may be extended to support more than two control planes. The maximum number of service meshes in a single cluster depends on the available cluster resources.

[NOTE]
====

> There is only one `IstioCNI` resource shared by all control planes in the cluster, and it must be updated independently.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Only one `IstioCNI` resource is shared by all control planes in a cluster, and X must update this resource independent of other cluster resources.
```

====

.Prerequisites
* The {SMProduct} operator is installed.
* An {istio} CNI resource is created.
* The `istioctl` binary is installed on your localhost.

[NOTE]
====
You can run the following command to check for existing `{istio}` instances:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get istios
----
====

.Procedure

. Deploy the first control plane by using the following steps:

.. Create the namespace for the first {istio} control plane called `istio-system-1`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc new-project istio-system-1
----

.. Add the following label to the first namespace, which will be used with the Istio `discoverySelectors` field:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc label namespace istio-system-1 istio-discovery=mesh-1
----

.. Create a YAML file named `istio-1.yaml` with the name `mesh-1` and the discoverySelector `mesh-1`:
+
.Example configuration
[source,yaml,subs="attributes,verbatim"]
----
kind: Istio
apiVersion: sailoperator.io/v1alpha1
metadata:
  name: mesh-1
spec:
  namespace: istio-system-1
  values:
    meshConfig:
      discoverySelectors:
        - matchLabels:

>             istio-discovery: mesh-1

Reviewer 4: Is this a complete YAML? IF not, add:

[# ...](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#yaml-formatting)

Reviewer 4: Apply throughout.

----

.. Create the first `Istio` resource:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f istio-1.yaml
----

> .. To restrict workloads in `mesh-1` from communicating freely with unencrypted traffic between meshes, deploy a `PeerAuthentication` resource to enforce mutual TLS (mTLS) traffic within the `mesh-1` data plane. Apply the `PeerAuthentication` resource in the `istio-system-1` namespace by using a configuration file, such as `peer-auth-1.yaml`:

Reviewer 4: ![Screenshot from 2025-01-10 11-28-51](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/29dabc66-296b-478f-9a64-cb17c3598cf2)

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// install/ossm-deploying-multiple-service-meshes-on-single-cluster.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: Procedure
[id="ossm-deploying-multiple-control-planes_{context}"]
= Deploying multiple control planes

> To configure a cluster to host two control planes, set up separate {istio} resources with unique names in independent {istio} system namespaces. Assign a unique revision name to each {istio} resource to identify the control planes, workloads, or namespaces it manages. Apply these revision names using injection or `istio.io/rev` labels to specify which control plane injects the sidecar proxy into application pods.

Reviewer 5: I agree with @jeana-redhat , this is not formatted properly. A procedure should have only a couple of sentences as lede. These three lead paragraphs should be a concept module; then there should be two procedures that follow.

See https://raw.githubusercontent.com/redhat-documentation/modular-docs/master/modular-docs-manual/files/TEMPLATE_PROCEDURE_doing-one-procedure.adoc 
https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#shortdesc
https://redhat-documentation.github.io/modular-docs/#con-creating-procedure-modules_writing-mod-docs

Correcting formatting to docs style does not remove or change any technical content, and therefore should not matter much for engineering. Indeed, the proper use a concept module first sets up the two procedures as a single flow that is easier to follow for the user.

Author: Mades changes to follow docs structure

metadata:
  name: mesh-1
spec:
  namespace: istio-system-1
  values:
    meshConfig:
      discoverySelectors:
        - matchLabels:
            istio-discovery: mesh-1
# ...
----

.. Create the first `Istio` resource by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f istio-1.yaml
----

.. To restrict workloads in `mesh-1` from communicating freely with decrypted traffic between meshes, deploy a `PeerAuthentication` resource to enforce mutual TLS (mTLS) traffic within the `mesh-1` data plane. Apply the `PeerAuthentication` resource in the `istio-system-1` namespace by using a configuration file, such as `peer-auth-1.yaml`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f peer-auth-1.yaml
----
+
.Example configuration
[source,yaml,subs="attributes,verbatim"]
----
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1
kind: PeerAuthentication
metadata:
  name: "mesh-1-peerauth"
  namespace: "istio-system-1"
spec:
  mtls:
    mode: STRICT
----

. Deploy the second control plane by using the following steps:

.. Create a namespace for the second Istio control plane called `istio-system-2` by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc new-project istio-system-2
----

> .. Add the following label to the second namespace, which will be used with the Istio `discoverySelectors` field by running the following command:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
.. Add the following label to the second namespace, which is used with the Istio `discoverySelectors` field by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc label namespace istio-system-2 istio-discovery=mesh-2
----

.. Create a YAML file named `istio-2.yaml`:
+
.Example configuration
[source,yaml,subs="attributes,verbatim"]
----
kind: Istio
apiVersion: sailoperator.io/v1alpha1
metadata:
  name: mesh-2
spec:
  namespace: istio-system-2
  values:
    meshConfig:
      discoverySelectors:
        - matchLabels:
            istio-discovery: mesh-2
# ...
----

> .. Create `Istio` resource by running the following command:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
.. Create the `Istio` resource by running the following command:
```
